---
layout: main
title: Master Thesis
lang: en
ref: master
---

### Research

#### Educational Goal

The application of basic, theoretical, methodological, scientific-professional
and professional-applicative knowledge and methods to solve given problem.
Within this part of the work on the master thesis, the student studies the
problem, its structure and complexity, draws conclusions on possible
solutions. By studying the literature the student becomes familiar with the
methods used in solving similar problems and the engineering practice of these
solutions. The goal of the studentâ€™s activity whithin this part of research is
to acquire the sufficient experience by solving complex problems and tasks and
the ability to apply the acquired knowledge in practice.

#### Educational Outcomes

Students are able to apply on their own acquired knowledge in the fields that
they had previously studied in order to understand the structure of the given
problem and to perform its systematic analysis. By using professional
literature on their own, students widen their knowledge in the chosen field
and study different methods and scientific papers related to the topic. In
that way, students develop the ability to identify and analyse given problems.

#### Contents and Structure

The course structure is formed individually according to the needs of a
specific master thesis, its complexity and structure. The student studies
professional literature, graduation and master thesis of students who have
previously done work on a similar topic, performs analysis in order to find
solutions to a specific problem which is the subject of the thesis. A part of
the course is done through individual study-research work. The study involves
related work analysis, organization and realization of research which is the
subject of the thesis, writing and/or presenting a master thesis related paper
at a scientific conference or in a scientific journal.

#### Teaching Methods

The mentor of the master thesis defines and writes the task for the thesis and
hands it to the student. The student is oblidged to write the thesis within
the given topic which is defined by the master thesis task by using
professional literature suggested by the mentor. While working on the thesis,
the mentor has to give additional instructions to the student, direct them to
specific literature and advise him in  order to enhance the quality of the
master thesis. Within the researc, the student consults with the mentor, and,
if necessary, with other professors teaching the subjects related to the
master thesis topic. Within the given topic, the student conducts
measurements, research, counting, surveys,  statistical processing of data, if
defined by the task of the master thesis.

### Preparation and Defense

#### Educational Goal

Gaining skills necessery to write a scientific-professional paper in
accordance with rules that apply to scientific-professional paper writing, as
well as to orally present achieved results clearly and within give time
constraints.

#### Educational Outcomes

Capacity to write a scientific-professional paper in accordance with rules
that apply to scientific-professional paper writing. This contains clear
definition of research hypothesis, an overview of related work using
established citation styles, description of problem solving, discussion of
achieved results with mandatory expliation of advantages and dissadvantages of
the proposed solution. Recognition of master thesis metadata required for
bibliographic processing. Capability to present achieved results clearly and
within give time constraints.

#### Contents and Structure

Reading and analysis of selected scientific-professional papers of other
authors. Discussion about the style of writing scientific- professional papers
with thesis adviser. Creation of draft thesis text and its modification in
accordance either with adviser suggestions or with personal oppinion of the
student. Writing a scientific paper from the thesis topic for a domestic
scientific conference or a journal. Preparation of oral presentation for
thesis defense.

#### Teaching Methods

Direct communication with thesis advisor and other professors if necessary.
