---
layout: main
title: About the Study Programme
lang: en
ref: studije
---

### Programme Structure

The title of the interdisciplinary study programme is Master studies ICT for
public administration. Study programme lasts for two years (4 semesters) with
123 – 125 ECTS. Academic degree granted to student after graduation is Master
in information and communication technologies – ICT for public administration.
The outcomes of the study are abilities to use professional and scientific
literature, capacity to solve practical problems, and prerequisites to
continue education. The master study programme is aimed to educate
professionals highly competent for development of ICT solutions, in particular
those for needs of public administration and government. Therefore it provides
a deep knowledge of modern ICT (distributed architectures, business processes
management, digital documents management, information security) and ICT
enabled applications to public government and administration (resources
management, business intelligence, social networks, legal informatics,
e-justice, e-education, etc.), combined with knowledge and understanding of
public government and administration domain in information society (economy
and legislation of public sector, organization and operation of public
administration, and information society development evaluation). Consequently,
graduate students will gain competences for development, implementation and
management of ICT solutions with better understanding of problems that the ICT
solution is intended to cope with and ensured good communications with public
government and administration domain experts. Enrolment prerequisite is a
bachelor degree in computing, informatics, management, organizational
sciences, and economics worthy minimum 180 ECTS. In addition, holders of
bachelor degree in law are allowed to enroll if pass the qualification exam in
ICT.

The curriculum structure consists of compulsory courses (below 70%) and
electives (above 30%). Students take electives from specified elective pools.

Teaching is performed in the form of lectures and practical classes. During
the study process, particular emphasize is put to individual research work as
well as enhanced personal involvement in study process. During the lectures,
the subject matter is taught using suitable didactic methods and teaching
materials  with the necessary explanations, which contribute to better
understanding of the subject matter. At the practice classes, which accompany
the lectures, particular tasks are solved and additional examples are given
that further illustrate the topic. Practical classes also provide additional
explanation of the topics presented at lecture classes. These classes can be
devoted to organize solving of real-life problems. Practice can be in the form
of auditory, or computer classes, as well as workshops involving all students
attending the course. Practice classes can partially be conducted in a
software company or a governmental or public administration institution. The
size of the group for practice classes depends on the type of practice.
Student obligations at these classes include writing seminar papers, homework
assignments, project assignments or semester assignments, which are followed
and evaluated according to regulations adopted at the University. The number
of points earned is expresses according to uniform system and reflects the
student workload. Each course is worthy exact number of ECTS and the studies
are considered finished after a student performs all obligations prescribed by
the study programme and collects at least 123 ECTS.

### Programme Goals

The objectives of the study programme can be classified in the following categories.

**Acquisition of ICT knowledge.** Study programme provides comprehensive and deep knowledge of modern ICT and skills for development of ICT solutions with special emphasis to the domain of public government and administration.

**Acquisition of domain knowledge.** Study programme provides knowledge of the domain of public government and administration necessary for development, implementation and management of ICT solutions for public government and administration domain.

**Acquisition of practical knowledge.** Study programme provides acquisition of knowledge necessary for problem and projects identification and formulation as well as plans for their solving using various ICT knowledge and skills combined with domain knowledge. This, among others, includes development of creativity in problem considerations and critical thinking.

**Training for communication and teamwork.** Study programme offers knowledge and skills necessary for presenting own results to professional and wider audience as well as development of capability for team work.

**Preparation for further studies.** Acquiring the necessary knowledge which will enable the continuation of student education at doctoral level. A specific aim which is related to the objectives of the education at the University of Novi Sad is developing the students awareness of the need for life- long learning, development of  society as  a  whole and environment  protection.

**Preparation for professional involvement.** Acquiring the necessary knowledge and developing awareness of the wide spectre of problems and obligations related to professional practice: safety, ethics, ecology and economy.
